[modular] improve auto offload (#14304)
huggingface/diffusers: docs/source/en/modular_diffusers/components_manager.md

manager.enable_auto_cpu_offload(device="cuda")
```

All models begin on the CPU and [`ComponentsManager`] moves them to the appropriate device right before they're needed, and moves other models back to the CPU when the incoming model wouldn't fit. Each offloading decision checks the memory actually available on the device at that moment and keeps `memory_reserve` (3GB unless you change it) of it free as headroom for activations, which scale with resolution, batch size, and sequence length rather than with the number of models — image models around 1024px are comfortable with a few GB, while video models need more.

```py
manager.enable_auto_cpu_offload(device="cuda", memory_reserve="1GB")
```

> The reserve is an estimate, so a forward pass can still run out of memory. By default the manager recovers on its own: it offloads the smallest model on the device and retries the forward pass, escalating one model at a time until it fits — pass `retry_on_oom=False` to raise the error instead. A model that still doesn't fit once everything else is offloaded is too large for the device on its own; use [group offloading](../optimization/memory#group-offloading) for it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The reserve is an estimate, so a forward pass can still run out of memory. By default the manager recovers on its own: it offloads the smallest model on the device and retries the forward pass, escalating one model at a time until it fits. OOM retry is intended for inference only because each retry reruns the forward call from its original inputs. Set `retry_on_oom=False` during training or when the forward pass is not safe to repeat. A model that still doesn't fit once everything else is offloaded is too large for the device on its own; use [group offloading](../optimization/memory#group-offloading) for it.
```

### Inspecting what the offloader did

Every move is recorded. Print [`ComponentsManager.offload_record`] after a run to see the sequence, what each move cost, and where a forward pass ran out of memory.

```py
manager.enable_auto_cpu_offload(device="cuda")
pipe(prompt="a cat")
print(manager.offload_record)
```

On a 20GB card, the Z-Image pipeline from the example above records this:

```py
# | Onload                                 | Offloaded                              | Available | Peak     | Reason
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1 | text_encoder_129824856400544 (7.49 GB) | -                                      | 18.02 GB  | 8.50 KB  |
2 | transformer_129824854851072 (11.46 GB) | text_encoder_129824856400544 (7.49 GB) | 10.38 GB  | 7.77 GB  |
3 | vae_129824905851968 (159.87 MB)        | -                                      | 6.36 GB   | 12.07 GB |
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
```

> Each row is one decision: the model that loaded, what was offloaded to make room for it, and the memory picture (`Available` and `Peak`, read just before the decision's first move) it was based on. Here the transformer found 10.38 GB free — not enough for its 11.46 GB of weights while keeping the 3GB `memory_reserve` — so the text encoder was offloaded first. The VAE then fit into the 6.36 GB left next to the transformer, so it loaded without pushing anything off. The `Reason` column stays empty for these planned moves; it is filled when a model is offloaded for any other reason: `oom_retry:<model>` when a forward pass ran out of memory and offloading was the rescue (covered below), or `offloading_disabled` when [`~ComponentsManager.disable_auto_cpu_offload`] moves everything back to CPU. To watch the moves live as they happen instead, enable info logging with `diffusers.logging.set_verbosity_info()`.

Reviewer: This was a bit long and dense, I think we can let the table show and explain instead of explicitly spelling out whats happening.

```suggestion
Each row represents one offload decision. `Onload` names the model moved to the device, and `Offloaded` lists the models moved to CPU first. `Available` and `Peak` show the memory readings before the decision. Planned offloads leave `Reason` blank. The field is populated for OOM retries and for moves caused by disabling offloading.
```

> A model appearing repeatedly in this table is thrashing — it is being offloaded and re-loaded every step, which costs a PCIe transfer each way. That usually means `memory_reserve` is too large (models are pushed off that would have fit) or too small (each step ends in an OOM retry). It can also mean the default strategy is making the wrong call for your workload: a model that runs again inside the same denoise loop should stay resident even when evicting it looks fine on memory alone. That is a case for a custom strategy, which the next section covers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A model appearing repeatedly in this table is thrashing — it is being offloaded and reloaded every step, which costs a PCIe transfer each way. That usually means `memory_reserve` is too large (models are pushed off that would have fit) or too small (each step ends in an OOM retry). It can also mean the default strategy is making the wrong call for your workload: a model that runs again inside the same denoise loop should stay resident even when evicting it looks fine on memory alone. That is a case for a custom strategy, which the next section covers.
```

### Writing a custom offload strategy

Every decision in the record above was made by an *offload strategy*: a callable consulted each time a model needs to move onto the device. It receives the hooks of the models currently on the device (`hooks`), the model about to load (`model_id`, `model`), and the `execution_device`, and returns which of the resident hooks to offload first.

The default strategy, `AutoOffloadStrategy`, is what produced the records so far: it works out how much room the incoming model needs — its weights plus `memory_reserve`, measured against the memory currently free — and frees the smallest combination of resident models that covers it, or nothing if the model already fits.

To make different decisions, write your own callable with the same signature and set it with [`~ComponentsManager.set_offload_strategy`]. For example, we can create a sequential strategy with one line:

```py
class OffloadEverything:
    def __call__(self, hooks, model_id, model, execution_device):
        return hooks  # offload every other resident model before each load
```

> This strategy offloads and onloads models in the sequence they are called (pretty much what [`~DiffusionPipeline.enable_model_cpu_offload`] does for standard pipelines). Use it like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This strategy offloads and onloads models in the sequence they are called (like [`~DiffusionPipeline.enable_model_cpu_offload`] for standard pipelines). Use it like this:
```

1 | text_encoder_136361472535648 (7.49 GB) | -                                      | 78.57 GB  | 8.50 KB  |
2 | transformer_136361472167088 (11.46 GB) | text_encoder_136361472535648 (7.49 GB) | 70.93 GB  | 7.77 GB  |
3 | vae_136361468822832 (159.87 MB)        | transformer_136361472167088 (11.46 GB) | 66.91 GB  | 12.07 GB |
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
```

The strategy is plain Python over the resident hooks — each carries its `model_id` (the component name plus a unique suffix) and its `model` — so it can encode policy the memory numbers can't express. Say your pipeline has two DiTs that alternate every denoising step: evicting one to make room for the other is exactly the thrashing described above, so keep them resident together by never offloading a `dit` for a `dit`, whatever the memory picture says:

```py
class KeepDitsTogether:
    def __call__(self, hooks, model_id, model, execution_device):
        if model_id.startswith("dit"):
            return [hook for hook in hooks if not hook.model_id.startswith("dit")]
        return hooks
```

### Finding the bottleneck with the peak column

> `Peak` is the device's peak allocated memory as of that moment, so reading down the column tells you *when* the run's heaviest moments happened. In the first record above: nothing had run yet when the text encoder loaded (8.50 KB); by the transformer's turn the peak was the text encoder's weights plus its activations (7.77 GB); by the VAE's turn the transformer and its denoising steps had pushed it to 12.07 GB. The end of the run isn't a row (nothing loads after the VAE), so read the final peak directly — it's the same counter:

Reviewer: I think we can clarify how to interpret `Peak` and `memory_reserve` a bit more. For example, `Peak` is cumulative since process start but here it reads a bit like a per-run activation measurement (same for `memory_reserve`).

This may also work better as a sequential list instead of a paragraph :)
